doc/source/introduction.rst, before:

Introduction
============

This project provides `Django <https://www.djangoproject.com/>`_ sites access to the `Split.io <http://split.io/>`_ SDK API. For more information on the Split.io SDK, please consult the documentation.

Installation and Requirements
-----------------------------

``django_splitio`` supports both Python 2 (2.7 or later) and Python 3 (3.3 or later) and Django 1.8 (or later). Stable versions can be installed from `PyPI <https://pypi.python.org>`_ using pip: ::

  pip install django-splitio

and development versions are installed directly from the `Github <https://github.com/splitio/django-splitio>`_ repository: ::

  pip install -e git+git@github.com:splitio/django-splitio.git@development#egg=django_splitio

This project requires a working `Celery <http://www.celeryproject.org/>`_ setup `integrated into your Django site <http://docs.celeryproject.org/en/latest/django/first-steps-with-django.html>_` and access to a `Redis <http://redis.io/>`_ 2.6 (or later) instance.

Quickstart
----------

Before you begin, make sure that you have an **API key** for the Split.io services. Consult the Split.io documentation on how to get an API key for any of your environments.

First add ``django_splitio`` to the ``INSTALLED_APPS`` Django setting: ::

    INSTALLED_APPS = (
        ...
        'django_splitio',
        ...
    )

Next, create a ``SPLITIO`` dictionary on the Django settings. Only the ``API_KEY`` is mandatory. ::

    SPLITIO = {
        'API_KEY': 'my_splitio_api_key',
    }

With this configuration, the Split.io client will save all its information on a Redis instance running on ``localhost`` on port 6879. If you need to change the Redis configuration, you can use the ``REDIS_HOST``, ``REDIS_PORT`` and ``REDIS_DB`` configuration parameters: ::

    SPLITIO = {
        'API_KEY': 'my_splitio_api_key',
        'REDIS_HOST': 'my.redis.host',
        'REDIS_PORT': 6879,
        'REDIS_DB': 0,
    }

In the next section you can read about all the possible configuration parameters.

The next step is to schedule the Split.io related tasks. If you followed the instructions for Celery integration with Django, you'll most likely have a celery.py module that contains your Celery app. One way to schedule to schedule the tasks is to add entries to the ``CELERYBEAT_SCHEDULE`` settting, as shown in the following example: ::

    # celery.py
    from __future__ import absolute_import

    import os

    from celery import Celery

    # set the default Django settings module for the 'celery' program.
    os.environ.setdefault('DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE', 'django_splitio_testapp.settings')

    from django.conf import settings  # noqa

    from django_splitio.tasks import (get_features_update_schedule,  # noqa
                                      get_segments_update_schedule,
                                      get_impressions_update_schedule, get_metrics_update_schedule)

    app = Celery('django_splitio_testapp')

    # Using a string here means the worker will not have to
    # pickle the object when using Windows.
    app.config_from_object('django.conf:settings')
    app.autodiscover_tasks(lambda: settings.INSTALLED_APPS)
    app.conf.update(CELERYBEAT_SCHEDULE={
        'update_features_task': {
            'task': 'django_splitio.tasks.update_features_task',
            'schedule': get_features_update_schedule()
        },
        'update_segments_task': {
            'task': 'django_splitio.tasks.update_segments_task',
            'schedule': get_segments_update_schedule()
        },
        'update_impressions_task': {
            'task': 'django_splitio.tasks.update_impressions_task',
            'schedule': get_impressions_update_schedule()
        },
        'update_metrics_task': {
            'task': 'django_splitio.tasks.update_metrics_task',
            'schedule': get_metrics_update_schedule()
        }
    })

The convenience methods ``get_features_update_schedule``, ``get_segments_update_schedule``, ``get_impressions_update_schedule`` and ``get_metrics_update_schedule`` are provided to set the task's schedule according to the Split.io client configuration.

Once everythig has been set-up and the celery tasks are and up running, you can request the treatment for user using the client provided by the ``get_client`` function: ::

  >>> from django_splitio import get_client
  >>> client = get_client()
  >>> client.get_treatment('some_user', 'some_feature')
  'SOME_TREATMENT'

Client configuration
--------------------

The following configuration parameters are available for the ``SPLITIO`` settings dictionary:

+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Key                    | Type | Description                                            | Default                                        |
+========================+======+========================================================+================================================+
| API_KEY                | str  | The Split.io SDK API key. This entry is mandatory.     | None                                           |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| SDK_API_BASE_URL       | str  | The URL base for the SDK API. This entry can be used   | 'https://sdk.split.io/api'                     |
|                        |      | to hit a different environment different than the      |                                                |
|                        |      | production one.                                        |                                                |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| EVENTS_API_BASE_URL    | str  | The URL base for the Events API. This entry can be     | 'https://events.split.io/api'                  |
|                        |      | used to hit a different environment different than     |                                                |
|                        |      | the production one.                                    |                                                |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| REDIS_HOST             | str  | The host that contains the redis instance.             | 'localhost'                                    |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| REDIS_PORT             | int  | The port of the redis instance                         | 6879                                           |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| REDIS_DB               | int  | THe db index on the redis instance                     | 0                                              |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| REDIS_FACTORY          | str  | A string with the location of a function that returns  | 'django_splitio.cache.default_redis_factory'   |
|                        |      | redis clients instances. The default implementation    |                                                |
|                        |      | uses the REDIS_HOST, REDIS_PORT and REDIS_DB to call   |                                                |
|                        |      | the StrictRedis constructor.                           |                                                |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| CLIENT_FACTORY         | str  | A string with the location of a function that returns  | 'django_splitio.clients.django_client_factory' |
|                        |      | a Split.io cient instance. The default implementation  |                                                |
|                        |      | uses the information on the SPLITIO Django setting to  |                                                |
|                        |      | create a DjangoClient instance. A localhost client     |                                                |
|                        |      | (one that never hits the Split.io backend) factory is  |                                                |
|                        |      | provided as is can be useful during development. Check |                                                |
|                        |      | the splitio-client documentation for more information  |                                                |
|                        |      | on localhost clients.                                  |                                                |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| DISABLED_PERIOD        | int  | How long to wait to re-enable an automatic update      | 300                                            |
|                        |      | process after a problem was detected (in seconds).     |                                                |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| CONFIG                 | dict | A dictionary with configuration values that control    | See below.                                     |
|                        |      | the behaviour of the Split.io SDK client.              |                                                |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+

The ``CONFIG`` SPLITIO setting mimics the behaviour of the ``config`` parameter for the regular Split.io python client. The following table shows the possible entries and their descriptions: ::

+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------+
| Key                    | Type | Description                                            | Default |
+========================+======+========================================================+=========+
| connectionTimeout      | int  | The timeout for HTTP connections in milliseconds.      | 1500    |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------+
| readTimeout            | int  | The read timeout for HTTP connections in milliseconds. | 1500    |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------+
| featuresRefreshRate    | int  | The features (splits) update refresh period in         | 30      |
|                        |      | seconds.                                               |         |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------+
| segmentsRefreshRate    | int  | The segments update refresh period in seconds.         | 60      |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------+
| metricsRefreshRate     | int  | The metrics report period in seconds                   | 60      |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------+
| impressionsRefreshRate | int  | The impressions report period in seconds               | 60      |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------+
| ready                  | int  | How long to wait (in milliseconds) for the features    |         |
|                        |      | and segments information to be available. If the       |         |
|                        |      | timeout is exceeded, a ``TimeoutException`` will be    |         |
|                        |      | raised. If value is 0, the constructor will return     |         |
|                        |      | immediately but not all the information might be       |         |
|                        |      | available right away.                                  |         |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------+

The localhost environment
-------------------------

During development the ``LocalhostEnvironmentClient`` client class can be used to avoid hitting the
Split.io API SDK. This class takes its configuration from a ``.split`` file in the user's *HOME*
directory. The ``.split`` file has the following format: ::

  file: (comment | split_line)+
  comment : '#' string*\n
  split_line : feature_name ' ' treatment\n
  feature_name : string
  treatment : string

This is an example of a ``.split`` file: ::

  # This is a comment
  feature_0 treatment_0
  feature_1 treatment_1

In order to use this client, you set the ``CLIENT_FACTORY`` to 'django_splitio.clients.localhost_client_factory': ::

    SPLITIO = {
        'API_KEY': 'this value is ignored for localhost client',
        'CLIENT_FACTORY': 'django_splitio.clients.localhost_client_factory'
    }

Afterwards, the ``get_client`` fuunction works as expected.

  >>> from django_splitio import get_client
  >>> client = SelfRefreshingClient()
  >>> client.get_treatment('some_user', 'feature_0')
  'treatment_0'
  >>> client.get_treatment('some_other_user', 'feature_0')
  'treatment_0'
  >>> client.get_treatment('yet_another_user', 'feature_1')
  'treatment_1'
  >>> client.get_treatment('some_user', 'non_existent_feature')
  'CONTROL'

Commit message:

Refactor clients. Update docs. Remove unused code.

doc/source/introduction.rst, after:

Introduction
============

This project provides `Django <https://www.djangoproject.com/>`_ sites access to the `Split.io <http://split.io/>`_ SDK API. For more information on the Split.io SDK, please consult the documentation.

Installation and Requirements
-----------------------------

``django_splitio`` supports both Python 2 (2.7 or later) and Python 3 (3.3 or later) and Django 1.8 (or later). Stable versions can be installed from `PyPI <https://pypi.python.org>`_ using pip: ::

  pip install django-splitio

and development versions are installed directly from the `Github <https://github.com/splitio/django-splitio>`_ repository: ::

  pip install -e git+git@github.com:splitio/django-splitio.git@development#egg=django_splitio

This project requires a working `Celery <http://www.celeryproject.org/>`_ setup `integrated into your Django site <http://docs.celeryproject.org/en/latest/django/first-steps-with-django.html>_` and access to a `Redis <http://redis.io/>`_ 2.6 (or later) instance.

Quickstart
----------

Before you begin, make sure that you have an **API key** for the Split.io services. Consult the Split.io documentation on how to get an API key for any of your environments.

First add ``django_splitio`` to the ``INSTALLED_APPS`` Django setting: ::

    INSTALLED_APPS = (
        ...
        'django_splitio',
        ...
    )

Next, create a ``SPLITIO`` dictionary on the Django settings. Only the ``API_KEY`` is mandatory. ::

    SPLITIO = {
        'API_KEY': 'my_splitio_api_key',
    }

With this configuration, the Split.io client will save all its information on a Redis instance running on ``localhost`` on port 6879. If you need to change the Redis configuration, you can use the ``REDIS_HOST``, ``REDIS_PORT`` and ``REDIS_DB`` configuration parameters: ::

    SPLITIO = {
        'API_KEY': 'my_splitio_api_key',
        'REDIS_HOST': 'my.redis.host',
        'REDIS_PORT': 6879,
        'REDIS_DB': 0,
    }

In the next section you can read about all the possible configuration parameters.

The next step is to schedule the Split.io related tasks. If you followed the instructions for Celery integration with Django, you'll most likely have a celery.py module that contains your Celery app. One way to schedule to schedule the tasks is to add entries to the ``CELERYBEAT_SCHEDULE`` settting, as shown in the following example: ::

    # celery.py
    from __future__ import absolute_import

    import os

    from celery import Celery

    # set the default Django settings module for the 'celery' program.
    os.environ.setdefault('DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE', 'django_splitio_testapp.settings')

    from django.conf import settings  # noqa

    from django_splitio.tasks import (get_features_update_schedule,  # noqa
                                      get_segments_update_schedule,
                                      get_impressions_update_schedule, get_metrics_update_schedule)

    app = Celery('django_splitio_testapp')

    # Using a string here means the worker will not have to
    # pickle the object when using Windows.
    app.config_from_object('django.conf:settings')
    app.autodiscover_tasks(lambda: settings.INSTALLED_APPS)
    app.conf.update(CELERYBEAT_SCHEDULE={
        'update_features_task': {
            'task': 'django_splitio.tasks.update_features_task',
            'schedule': get_features_update_schedule()
        },
        'update_segments_task': {
            'task': 'django_splitio.tasks.update_segments_task',
            'schedule': get_segments_update_schedule()
        },
        'update_impressions_task': {
            'task': 'django_splitio.tasks.update_impressions_task',
            'schedule': get_impressions_update_schedule()
        },
        'update_metrics_task': {
            'task': 'django_splitio.tasks.update_metrics_task',
            'schedule': get_metrics_update_schedule()
        }
    })

The convenience methods ``get_features_update_schedule``, ``get_segments_update_schedule``, ``get_impressions_update_schedule`` and ``get_metrics_update_schedule`` are provided to set the task's schedule according to the Split.io client configuration.

Once everythig has been set-up and the celery tasks are and up running, you can request the treatment for user using the client provided by the ``get_client`` function: ::

  >>> from django_splitio import get_client
  >>> client = get_client()
  >>> client.get_treatment('some_user', 'some_feature')
  'SOME_TREATMENT'

Client configuration
--------------------

The following configuration parameters are available for the ``SPLITIO`` settings dictionary:

+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Key                    | Type | Description                                            | Default                                        |
+========================+======+========================================================+================================================+
| API_KEY                | str  | The Split.io SDK API key. This entry is mandatory. If  | None                                           |
|                        |      | "localhost" is supplied as API key, a localhost only   |                                                |
|                        |      | client is created when get_client is called            |                                                |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| SDK_API_BASE_URL       | str  | The URL base for the SDK API. This entry can be used   | 'https://sdk.split.io/api'                     |
|                        |      | to hit a different environment different than the      |                                                |
|                        |      | production one.                                        |                                                |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| EVENTS_API_BASE_URL    | str  | The URL base for the Events API. This entry can be     | 'https://events.split.io/api'                  |
|                        |      | used to hit a different environment different than     |                                                |
|                        |      | the production one.                                    |                                                |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| REDIS_HOST             | str  | The host that contains the redis instance.             | 'localhost'                                    |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| REDIS_PORT             | int  | The port of the redis instance                         | 6879                                           |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| REDIS_DB               | int  | THe db index on the redis instance                     | 0                                              |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| REDIS_FACTORY          | str  | A string with the location of a function that returns  | 'django_splitio.cache.default_redis_factory'   |
|                        |      | redis clients instances. The default implementation    |                                                |
|                        |      | uses the REDIS_HOST, REDIS_PORT and REDIS_DB to call   |                                                |
|                        |      | the StrictRedis constructor.                           |                                                |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| DISABLED_PERIOD        | int  | How long to wait to re-enable an automatic update      | 300                                            |
|                        |      | process after a problem was detected (in seconds).     |                                                |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| CONFIG                 | dict | A dictionary with configuration values that control    | See below.                                     |
|                        |      | the behaviour of the Split.io SDK client.              |                                                |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+

The ``CONFIG`` SPLITIO setting mimics the behaviour of the ``config`` parameter for the regular Split.io python client. The following table shows the possible entries and their descriptions: ::

+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------+
| Key                    | Type | Description                                            | Default |
+========================+======+========================================================+=========+
| connectionTimeout      | int  | The timeout for HTTP connections in milliseconds.      | 1500    |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------+
| readTimeout            | int  | The read timeout for HTTP connections in milliseconds. | 1500    |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------+
| featuresRefreshRate    | int  | The features (splits) update refresh period in         | 30      |
|                        |      | seconds.                                               |         |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------+
| segmentsRefreshRate    | int  | The segments update refresh period in seconds.         | 60      |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------+
| metricsRefreshRate     | int  | The metrics report period in seconds                   | 60      |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------+
| impressionsRefreshRate | int  | The impressions report period in seconds               | 60      |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------+
| ready                  | int  | How long to wait (in milliseconds) for the features    |         |
|                        |      | and segments information to be available. If the       |         |
|                        |      | timeout is exceeded, a ``TimeoutException`` will be    |         |
|                        |      | raised. If value is 0, the constructor will return     |         |
|                        |      | immediately but not all the information might be       |         |
|                        |      | available right away.                                  |         |
+------------------------+------+--------------------------------------------------------+---------+

The localhost environment
-------------------------

During development the ``LocalhostEnvironmentClient`` client class can be used to avoid hitting the
Split.io API SDK. This class takes its configuration from a ``.split`` file in the user's *HOME*
directory. The ``.split`` file has the following format: ::

  file: (comment | split_line)+
  comment : '#' string*\n
  split_line : feature_name ' ' treatment\n
  feature_name : string
  treatment : string

This is an example of a ``.split`` file: ::

  # This is a comment
  feature_0 treatment_0
  feature_1 treatment_1

In order to use this client, you need to set the ``API_KEY`` to 'localhost': ::

    SPLITIO = {
        'API_KEY': 'localhost'
    }

Afterwards, the ``get_client`` fuunction works as expected.

  >>> from django_splitio import get_client
  >>> client = SelfRefreshingClient()
  >>> client.get_treatment('some_user', 'feature_0')
  'treatment_0'
  >>> client.get_treatment('some_other_user', 'feature_0')
  'treatment_0'
  >>> client.get_treatment('yet_another_user', 'feature_1')
  'treatment_1'
  >>> client.get_treatment('some_user', 'non_existent_feature')
  'CONTROL'
